hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee and this is a video on the Lenovo
IdeaPad
710 s so this was a product that was
designed to compete against the best
ultra ebooks on the market right now so
things like the XPS 13 the razor blade
stealth but the Lenovo comes in a
package that's thinner lighter and
cheaper
let's take a look it comes in a fairly
compact box you get the laptop inside
some paperwork and a one piece power
adapter so there's no flip out prongs or
anything it's just a simple wall plug
the base model runs a skylake core i5
and it's priced at seven to eight
hundred dollars depending on sales a
similarly equipped XPS 13 runs around
$1000 and so does a razor blade stealth
but that comes with a faster core i7
processor and all of these have eight
gigs of RAM and 128 gigs of storage the
exterior materials that Lenovo went with
are magnesium and aluminum the top
surface is magnesium with some aluminum
it has a little more flex to it than the
XPS 13 lid but it still feels solid the
bottom panel is aluminum and you can
remove some screws including the ones
underneath the rubber strip and then you
have access to the internals the RAM is
soldered on this one has eight gigs it
goes up to 16 gigs but the m2 drive is
replaceable the chassis of the device
feels pretty durable the keyboard area
doesn't have too much Bend but the
screen shows a little bit of flex if you
put your back into it the hinge
mechanism is well-made it does need two
hands to open it though now I think most
of the price difference is reflected in
the build quality the Lenovo is like two
or three hundred dollars cheaper than
the XPS 13 or the Razer Blade stealth
the build quality isn't bad it's
actually really good especially for
something this thin and this light but
you can see that with the reduction in
weight if you put torsion on the screen
or if you're accidentally putting
pressure on the top panel it doesn't
have the same stiffness as the XPS 13
but just get a case for it treat it well
and it won't be an issue in terms of
connectivity it's a little bit light on
ports there's an SD card slot micro HDMI
a pair of USB 3 ports audio jack and a
System Restore switch there's no
Thunderbolt 3 ports so there's no
external GPU connections ok opening it
up the keys on the keyboard are really
nice
I'd say it's one of the better typing
experiences on an ultrabook backlit 1.35
millimetre travel nice feedback if
you're a Mac user you'll adapt this
keyboard quickly the one thing that bugs
me though is the shift key on the right
side of the keyboard another some people
who only use the left shift but when I
first started using this keyboard I
would hit the up arrow instead of the
shift key I got used to it but until you
develop the muscle memory to hit the
smaller key be prepared for typos the
glass trackpad is a good size texture
isn't as smooth as I'd like it it's
bigger than the XPS 13 trackpad but it
has an eland driver so tracking isn't
perfect there's the occasional skip
gestures work well the buns are good and
overall I'd say the trackpad experience
is on par with the XPS 13 the screen has
thin side bezels like the infinity
display on the XPS 13 the top bezel is a
little thicker because that has a webcam
in a more traditional spot the XPS
webcam always film from that low up your
nose angle this one's more normal the
display panel itself is nice it's 1080p
is bright at 320 nits it has good color
accuracy and viewing angles and combined
with the matte finish and that thin
bezel it's a great screen the speakers
are on the bottom there are JBL branded
and he had Dolby software for it they
don't have much bass but they sound
clear and they get pretty loud or at
least louder than you think they would
on a laptop this thin drive speeds are
pretty mediocre the review unit I have
here has 128 gig m2 SATA Drive the read
speeds are okay but the write speeds are
kind of sluggish fortunately you can
replace it with a faster PCIe drive if
you want system performances otherwise
good it's got a sky like I 5 with
integrated HD 520 graphics you won't
have any issues with work or media
consumption and it can kind of handle
some lightweight gaming if you want so
something like csgo or even overwatch if
you cranked all the settings down you
can hit like 50 60 frames per second at
lowest resolution it doesn't look the
best but you can still get some games in
in the middle of a lecture if you want
if you want to edit 1080p videos it can
handle it no problem just make sure to
get an external drive for your media if
you want to do 4k videos I wouldn't do
it on this one
there's no abnormal thermal throttling
but remember I'm
the base model thermally it runs at
pretty average temperatures at max
loader doesn't get uncomfortable or
anything even you're using it on your
lap fan noise is also very reasonable
onload nothing too loud there is a forty
six water hour battery on the inside
takes around two hours to charge a
little bit less and I'm getting around 6
to 7 hours of regular use ok Lenovo
IdeaPad 710 s a thin and light ultrabook
with respectable build quality is made
with magnesium and aluminum it has a 13
inch IPS panel it's bright with pretty
good color gamut and the side bezels are
nice and thin the backlit keyboard is
very responsive and nice to type on but
the right shift key takes time to get
used to the glass trackpad is roomy and
nice to use on the inside the skylake
processor is plenty powerful for work
and even for some light gaming and is
properly cooled the base model storage
is pretty slow on right speeds but it is
user replaceable the 8 gigs of ram are
soldered on and then there's a 46 watt
hour battery that'll last year on 7
hours so overall this is a great device
it's a thin and light Ultrabook that
still has a focus on affordability now
it has to make some compromises to keep
that price down so things like the
chassis strength and the drive speeds
those aren't fantastic but if you're
looking for a thin and light ultrabook
and you have a tighter budget take a
look at this one you might like it
that's the end of this video thumbs
would be liked it subs if you loved it
it's been nice see you guys next time